People who really study Washington
recognize that he had a rare trait,
rarer than rare today
and that was vision and the ability to see
what could be done and to embrace change.
Washington's passion is farming.
Most of his Mount Vernon acreage,
like that of his neighbors,
is planted with tobacco.
Tobacco can be lucrative but it is highly regulated
by the British.
So profits vary wildly.
It is also difficult to grow in the fragile Virginia soil.
So he wasn't worried about the prestige
of being a tobacco farmer.
He was interested in making his plantation pay for itself.
It was a business.
And Washington just decided there's got to be a better way.
Starting in 1766, Washington abandons tobacco
as his main cash crop,
one of the first Tidewater plantation owners to do so.
He replaces it with crops like corn, wheat, and flax.
Domestic crops for domestic consumption.
That's when he became really wealthy
when he started doing that rather than serving
the British need to import tobacco
which was a loser in America at that time.
You've got to constantly be innovating.
(dramatic music)
You've got to constantly ask yourself,
"Isn't there a better way to do this?"
For George Washington the farm at Mount Vernon
is a work in progress.
He never stopped searching for improvements
whether borrowed or self-generated.
He designs a better plow, one that won't get stuck
in the farm's clay soil.
He builds a threshing barn that revolutionizes
wheat production.
And when a patent application for an automated gristmill
comes across his Presidential desk,
he not only approves it but immediately orders one
for Mount Vernon.
In some ways George Washington was the
Steve Jobs of his time.
It was not technology for technology's sake.
It was technology in service of human advancement.
(upbeat banjo music)
In the last years of his life,
Washington decides to add a distillery to Mount Vernon's
growing list of business ventures.
It quickly becomes the biggest and most profitable
whiskey distillery in America.
One of the reasons I think George Washington created
a distillery was a classic business principle
which is take something and add value to it.
He had grain there at Mount Vernon.
Now grain is heavy, difficult to transport,
subject to spoilage.
But if you take that grain
and change it into whiskey
you've got something much more compact.
The nutrition is much denser.
It doesn't spoil.
It's easy to transport.
And those two things enabled him
to make higher value added product.
Washington was a visionary.
He spent years of his life
fighting for ideals that he had.
But he was also a supremely practical man.
He got his hands dirty whenever it was necessary.
That's the most inspiring thing about him to me.